/*
his case study scenario involves the details about the companies, their earning in each quarter, their performance in the recession year 2022-2023 and many more.
You have been given a dataset containing multiple tables associated with the case study.
Now, let's explore some objective questions related to the given case study.
*/

1) Many times from group of rows, you want to find some specific top 1,2 or 5 rows.
   So, Which of the following commands is/are used to put a restriction on the number of rows returned from a query?
ANS: LIMIT

2) Which of the following is known as the minimal super key?
ANS: Candidate key

3) As you already know which company is under which risk category. You want to know which company/companies are having minimum growth percent. 
   Rearrange the following query for getting the output for above query
ANS: SELECT Company_Name FROM ci
     Where Growth_Percent IN (SELECT MIN (Growth_Percent) FROM ci);

4) Which of the following is/are not an Aggregate function?
ANS: GROUP BY, HAVING
     LOWER, SORT
     Explanation:
     LOWER, SORT: "LOWER" function is not an aggregate function. It is commonly used in databases and programming languages to convert a string to lowercase. 
                  SORT is not an aggregate function but rather a function used for ordering or sorting the data.

     GROUP BY, HAVING: GROUP BY and HAVING are not aggregate functions either. 
                       GROUP BY is used to group rows based on a specified column or columns, and HAVING is used to filter groups based on a condition.

5) Which of the following commands come under DCL (Data Control Language) ?
ANS: GRANT, REVOKE.
     Explanation:
     GRANT, REVOKE: GRANT is used to provide user privileges or permissions on database objects, while REVOKE is used to revoke or remove previously granted privileges.

6) Retrieve the number of companies in each sector that have shown negative growth, as this will indicate which sectors have been impacted by the economic slowdown? 
ANS: SELECT Sector, COUNT (*) AS NumCompanies FROM Company_Information AS ci
     WHERE Growth_Percent < 0 GROUP BY Sector;

7) NULL is?
ANS: Not a value
     Explanation:
     NULL is a special value in databases that represents the absence of a value or the unknown state. It is not the same as 0 for integers or blank for characters. 
     It signifies the absence of any specific value or a missing value in a particular field or column.

8) Which of the following commands is used to delete all rows and free up space from a table?
ANS: TRUNCATE
     Explanation:
     TRUNCATE: The TRUNCATE command is used to remove all data from a table, deleting all rows and releasing the allocated space. 
     It is a faster operation compared to the DELETE command, as it does not generate individual undo logs for each deleted row.

9) Retrieve the number of companies in each headquarters, along with their respective headquarters names, 
   and sort the data in descending order based on the total number of companies. Rearrange the following query for getting the output for above query.
ANS: SELECT ch.HeadQuaters, COUNT(ch.Nation_id) AS Companies_Count FROM Company_Information AS ci
     JOIN Company_HeadQuarter AS ch ON ci.Company_HQ_id = ch.Nation_id 
     GROUP BY ch.HeadQuaters 
     ORDER BY Companies_Count DESC;

10) What is a table joined with itself called?
ANS: Self Join
     Explanation:
     A self-join is a type of join operation in SQL where a table is joined with itself based on a common column or condition. 
     In a self-join, the table is treated as two separate entities, often with aliases assigned to distinguish between them. 
     By comparing the values in the common column(s) between the two instances of the table, you can retrieve related data from within the same table. 
     Self-joins are useful when you want to compare records or establish relationships between different rows within the same table.

11) What is the name of the query that is placed within a WHERE or HAVING clause of another query?
ANS: Sub Query
     Explanation:
     A subquery, also known as a nested query or inner query, is a query that is placed within the parentheses of another query. 
     It is used to retrieve data based on the results or conditions of the outer query. 
     The subquery is executed first, and its result is then used in the outer query to further filter or manipulate the data. 
     Subqueries are commonly used to perform complex filtering, join operations, or calculations in SQL queries.

12) List the names of companies that are classified as very large in size, have shown a positive growth percent (earning more than the previous year), 
    and have made a positive impact on the country's growth. Rearrange the following query for getting the output for above query.
ANS: SELECT ci.Company_Name FROM Company_Information AS ci
     INNER JOIN Company_WorkForce AS cw ON ci.Company_Size_id = cw.Company_id
     WHERE cw.Company_size = 'Very Large' AND ci.Growth_Percent > 0;

12) "AS" Clause is used in SQL for?
ANS: Rename operation.
     Explanation:
     The "AS" clause in SQL is used for the rename operation. It allows you to assign an alias or alternative name to a column or a table in the result set of a query. 
     This alias can be used to refer to the column or table with the new name in the rest of the query.

13) Which operator performs pattern matching?
ANS: LIKE Operator
     Explanation:
     The LIKE operator is used in SQL to perform pattern matching with wildcard characters. It allows you to search for strings that match a specific pattern, 
     using wildcards such as '%' (matches any sequence of characters) and '_' (matches any single character). 
     This operator is commonly used in conjunction with the SELECT statement and the WHERE clause to filter rows based on pattern matching criteria.

14) In the fourth quarter, every company has reported their Q4_Result. 
    Now, it's time to identify the top company in each sector that has generated the highest earnings within their respective sectors during quarter 4. 
    Rearrange the following query for getting the output for above query.
ANS: SELECT t1.Sector, t1.Company_Name, t1.Q4_Result FROM Company_Information AS t1
     WHERE t1.Q4_Result = (SELECT MAX (Q4_Result)
                           FROM Company_Information AS t2
                           WHERE t2.Sector = t1.Sector)
                           GROUP BY t1.Sector;

15) In SQL, which command is used to change a tables storage characteristic?
ANS: ALTER table
     Explanation:
     The ALTER TABLE command is used to modify the structure or properties of an existing table in a database. 
     It allows you to add, modify, or drop columns, constraints, indexes, and other table-related objects. 
     By using the ALTER TABLE command, you can also change the storage characteristics of a table, such as modifying the storage engine, specifying the filegroup, 
     or adjusting other storage-related settings.

16) In SQL, which of the following is not a data definition language command?
ANS: UPDATE
     Explanation:
     UPDATE is a data manipulation language (DML) command used to modify the data within a table. 
     It is used to update existing records in a table by changing the values of specific columns based on specified conditions. 
     DDL commands, on the other hand, are used to define and manage the structure of the database, such as creating tables, 
     altering table structures, defining constraints, granting/restricting access, etc.

17) Identify the companies that have exhibited the highest growth in their respective company size categories during the first quarter (Q1_Result). 
    Rearrange the following query for getting the output for above query.
ANS: SELECT t1.Company_Name, t1.Company_Size_id, t1.Q1_Result FROM Company_Information AS t1
     JOIN ( SELECT Company_Size_id, MAX (Q1_Result) AS Max_Q1_Result FROM Company_Information AS ci
            GROUP BY Company_Size_id) AS t2 ON t1.Company_Size_id = t2.Company_Size_id 
            AND t1.Q1_Result = t2.Max_Q1_Result;